docs(enterprise): Add IdP delegation documentation [PLAT-4827] (#1416)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-enterprise_docs/enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/group-catalog/manual-google-workspace.md

Reviewer: As a general note: I don't know if we should release documentation for IdPs other that Okta and Entra.

Author: Discussed with Matteo and agree. I'll remove the other sections.

## Before you begin

- Administrator access to your Google Workspace admin console.
- Organization owner access to your Seqera organization.
- An active SSO connection. See [Google authentication](../../google).

:::note
Google Workspace doesn't include group memberships in OIDC tokens by default. Before catalog entries match at login, configure your IdP to emit a `groups` claim and complete the [IdP claim mapping](../claim-mapping) guidance.
:::

## What value to enter

Google Workspace identifies groups in OIDC tokens by the **group's primary email address**, not its display name. The value you enter in the Seqera catalog must match that email exactly — for example:

```
nextflow-admins@yourcompany.com
```

The value is case-insensitive but must include the full domain. Seqera matches the user's `groups` claim against this value at login.

## Find a group's primary email

1. Sign in to your Google Workspace admin console at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com).
2. Open **Directory**, then **Groups**.
3. Select the group you want to add to Seqera.
4. Copy the **Group email** value at the top of the group's details page.

## Add the group to Seqera

> 1. In Seqera, open **Organization settings** and select **Manage single sign-on**, then **Group mapping**.

Reviewer 2: This would I think be correct for cloud, but not enterprise. As SSO is env/config driven, there is not UI for managing SSO, hence we just have Org setting > Group mapping > 'manage'

<img width="2990" height="970" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2ea3d53b-a76b-4eaf-af80-969348add315" />

Reviewer: this file is inside `platform-enterprise_docs` directory so I'm guessing this is for enterprise only, we need to fix this

> 2. Select **Add group manually**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select **Add manual group**.
```

> 3. In **Group identifier**, paste the group's email address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In **Group name**, paste the group's email address.
```

Reviewer 2: Actually, wait, we don't have 2 fields here, just the name. This maybe something we need to address.
@JaimeSeqLabs FYI

4. (Optional) In **Display name**, enter a human-friendly label for the group. This appears in the **IdP Group** dropdown on the team form.

> 5. Select **Save**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. (Optional) Select a Linked team
7. Select **Add**.
```

> The group now appears in the catalog and in the **IdP Group** dropdown menu on the team form. To delegate a team to this group, see [Delegate a Team to an IdP group](../../../../../orgs-and-teams/teams#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The group now appears in the catalog. To delegate a team to this group, see [Delegate a Team to an IdP group](../../../../../orgs-and-teams/teams#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).
```

description: "Populate Seqera Platform Enterprise's IdP group catalog manually for Google Workspace organizations."
date: "2026-05-12"
tags: [sso, google-workspace, idp-delegation, administration, enterprise]
---

Google Workspace doesn't expose a SCIM 2.0 group provisioning API, so the Seqera group catalog is populated manually for Google Workspace organizations. This guide explains the format Seqera expects and where to find the right value in your Google Workspace administrator console.

## Before you begin

- Administrator access to your Google Workspace admin console.
- Organization owner access to your Seqera organization.
- An active SSO connection. See [Google authentication](../../google).

:::note
Google Workspace doesn't include group memberships in OIDC tokens by default. Before catalog entries match at login, configure your IdP to emit a `groups` claim and complete the [IdP claim mapping](../claim-mapping) guidance.
:::

## What value to enter

Google Workspace identifies groups in OIDC tokens by the **group's primary email address**, not its display name. The value you enter in the Seqera catalog must match that email exactly — for example:

```

> nextflow-admins@yourcompany.com

Reviewer: should we include a screenshot creating a manual group with this ?

```

> The value is case-insensitive but must include the full domain. Seqera matches the user's `groups` claim against this value at login.

Reviewer: fix needed, this is actually case-sensitive
```suggestion
The value is case-sensitive and must include the full domain. Seqera matches the user's `groups` claim against this value at login.
```

## Find a group's primary email

> 1. Sign in to your Google Workspace admin console at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com).

Reviewer: I don't know if we should leave this out of the docs, we mentioned at some point that we wouldn't be documenting IdP-specific configurations or properties, we simply link to the IdP's docs page.

Reviewer: That being said, this is a super simple guideline and it should be fine, but we have to actually go into a Google Workspace admin console to see if this is correct.

2. Open **Directory**, then **Groups**.
3. Select the group you want to add to Seqera.
4. Copy the **Group email** value at the top of the group's details page.

## Add the group to Seqera

> 1. In Seqera, open **Organization settings** and select **Manage single sign-on**, then **Group mapping**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In Platform, open **Settings > Organization settings > Group mapping** and select **Manage**.
```

2. Select **Add manual group**.
3. In **Group name**, paste the group's email address.
4. (Optional) In **Display name**, enter a human-friendly label for the group. This appears in the **IdP Group** dropdown on the team form.
6. (Optional) Select a Linked team

> 7. Select **Add**.

Reviewer: This is likely carried from the outdated spec, there is no display name for the manual groups:

<img width="612" height="370" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/845474d0-4bb1-4aa9-b2e2-6bc862c890ec" />

```suggestion
2. Select **Add manual group**.
3. In **Group name**, paste the group's email address.
4. Select a Linked team from the list.
5. Select **Add**.
```

The group now appears in the catalog. To delegate a team to this group, see [Delegate a Team to an IdP group](../../../../../orgs-and-teams/teams#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).

## Verify the value at login

If a delegated team isn't picking up users you expect, inspect what Google Workspace is actually emitting:

1. Sign in to a Seqera test account using SSO.

> 2. In your Seqera Enterprise instance logs, look for the SSO callback log line. It records the full claim set the platform received.

Reviewer: This is partially true, we log the claim set but only if we have the log level configured to DEBUG. Enterprise default logging is INFO.

Maybe we should defer to Google's documentation for this instead and remind the user that the users team memberships are evaluated at login time, so the teams will pick the users after they re-login

3. Confirm the `groups` claim is present and that its values match the catalog entries.

## Limitations

- Google Workspace doesn't support SCIM group sync, so renames and deletes don't propagate automatically. If you rename a group in Workspace, update the catalog entry in Seqera. If you delete a group, also delete the catalog entry to avoid stale references.

> - Nested groups are flattened by Google Workspace into the user's `groups` claim. A user is a member of any group whose membership chain reaches them.

Reviewer: TODO: verify this
